#Pπ long description

Plastic pollution has been identified as an issue that needs to be addressed because of its negative impact on humans and other living things. The material is dangerous to the environment, especially to animals and vegetation. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) estimates that there are more than 75 million metric tons of plastic waste in our oceans, and the number is growing by around 5% per year. For example, more than 17 metric tons of plastics entered our oceans. This can be seen as an alarming trend, as the UNEP notes that by 2040, the number will have tripled, and our oceans will have more plastic than fish ("Goal 14 | Department of Economic and Social Affairs," n.d.). The problem of plastic pollution is one that has gotten a lot of attention in recent years, with many organizations trying to curb the adverse effects of plastic on the environment.

Plastic pollution is a global issue that has become a significant environmental issue in recent years. The production, use, and disposal of plastic waste have become significant issues threatening people's and the environment's health. The production of plastic has grown significantly over the past century, with more than 300 billion kilograms of plastic being produced each year worldwide ("Visual feature | Beat plastic pollution," 2022). Most plastic pollution comes from littering, which causes an estimated 1 million deaths yearly; however, this number may be low due to underreporting. Plastic debris has been found in birds' stomachs and even in plankton in the open ocean. Plastic pollution also harms humans because it can cause illness and congenital disabilities if marine life or other animals are ingested. The main contribution of plastic pollution is from sewage canals and drainages. Sewage canals are used to dispose of human waste, but they also contain large amounts of trash from landfills, including plastics that have been thrown away incorrectly or after being used for too long. Sewage canals are often located near rivers or lakes and contribute to spreading marine debris and plastic. Drainage systems also contribute to plastic pollution because they carry this material into waterways where it is vulnerable to being washed into estuaries where it can collect other contaminants like oil slicks and algae blooms before entering a larger body of water like an ocean or sea.

Plastic is a very useful material in our lives, but at the same time, it has many negative effects on the environment and humans. There are many ways to reduce plastic pollution, but most people do not change their habits to stop using plastic materials (Giesler, 2018). One of the main reasons why people do not change their habits is because they are addicted to plastic products and cannot get rid of them. They have a mental attachment to these products, which makes them feel good about them and want to keep using them forever. The problem is that plastics do not biodegrade quickly and end up being disposed of in landfills or oceans, where they can flow into the water system and wreak havoc on marine life. There are many ways that humans can change their habits to avoid plastic usage. First, we need to understand why we use plastic in the first place. Plastic has become a necessary part of modern life due to its convenience and price point: it's cheap; however, this convenience comes at a cost: it takes hundreds of years for most plastics to decompose completely.

Our solution, Personal Plastic Interceptor (Ppi) is an IoT device on the edge that can be deployed in canals, sewages and drainage water canals of residential areas. The device is capable of identifying plastic and polythene debris and deploys its motorized arm to intercept the debris. When organic or non plastic debris is detected, it allows it to pass making the entire setup non-invasive. This low cost device can be adopted easily by any consumer and setup in minutes. User gets a daily update of number of trash collected and type of trash collected along with an estimate of number of species saved by the device as the result of intercepting the trash.

The system is developed with IBM Watson and IoT platform. We are hoping to use more products before the final submission to enable cloud storage and communication.